Dave Fuller: Okay.
Peter Matseykanets: So in in garbage collected languages like go, for example, that I do.
Peter Matseykanets: The out or work, you know it's it's easy it's all handled by the garbage collector itself, it keeps track of all the variables, whether you still using or reference them from anywhere.
Peter Matseykanets: And if not ages disposal dispose of them right rust does not have garbage collector, which is a good and bad thing.
Peter Matseykanets: Altogether the good thing about it, it doesn't need any runtime.
Peter Matseykanets: To be shipped with a right.
Peter Matseykanets: it's all you know static link, there is now something that runs alongside your Program.
Dave Fuller: And so.
Peter Matseykanets: Then so it's more like c++ you you're lucky you the allocate it's just in rough you the allocates once it goes out of the scope.
Peter Matseykanets: different things.
Peter Matseykanets: which I just yeah I just want to do that, and you have different syntax things that allow you in the rest that allows you to control control the ownership.
Peter Matseykanets: And that's exactly where things become very complicated real quick.
Dave Fuller: ronnie examples, it looks like it's are talking about pointers.
Dave Fuller: Almost, although they don't use the term pointer I guess it's not really a pointer.
Peter Matseykanets: There are pointers and there are references and reference can point to a pointer that points to a location in memory in Vienna on the hip.
Peter Matseykanets: And you can pass around.
Peter Matseykanets: References because they are.
Peter Matseykanets: types of unknown size and therefore allocated on on the stack.
Peter Matseykanets: To they're like no special treatment for those they're like integers or flows right or boolean simplest how I understand it right, but the pointer.
Peter Matseykanets: In the pointer itself, I think, is also on the flip side right, but the memory isn't.
David Fox: Right what it points to.
Peter Matseykanets: Oh yeah what it points to yeah.
David Fox: So, like they are still pointers I guess in the classic sense even I mean at a high level they behave slightly differently than they do like in c++ but.
David Fox: they're still pointers in the classic sense that they are something tiny that just says hey here's your reference to a thing on the heap of.
David Fox: an unknown size right that's the stuff that this other dude this unknown size is what needs to be allocated on the heap at runtime right.
Peter Matseykanets: yeah yeah it just it's just a typical of three values right.
David Fox: Right.
Peter Matseykanets: The pointer is the reference, as I understand is just like one thing that points to.
Peter Matseykanets: A reference is a thing that points to it pointed.
David Fox: You Brian read the referees it's like the simplest of the structures it's literally just a.
David Fox: thing that points to the pointer.
David Fox: yep.
Peter Matseykanets: And then the point capacity or lane yes.
David Fox: yeah the pointer has some metadata.
David Fox: yeah lengthen capacity lady said okay.
Peter Matseykanets: yeah that's for strings for other things that can be something else but yeah, although I don't know, maybe pointers are are the same, I didn't.
Peter Matseykanets: didn't read the whole thing just yet.
Peter Matseykanets: But.
Peter Matseykanets: So I know in go things are handled in some cases similar Lee and there's some structures that have kind of some variability in that pointer structure but.
Peter Matseykanets: But yeah regardless going to the there is a there is a memory that we want to allocate from because it's unknown size, we need, we need to be able to point to where we started what's the length.
Peter Matseykanets: And how much we reserve for for doing any of rights to that part of the memory.
Peter Matseykanets: And we need to be able to free that memory once we stop using it so that we can return it to the operator back to the operating system, otherwise we would leak memory right or use it.
Peter Matseykanets: More and more and crush eventually will be out of memory.
Peter Matseykanets: So that's the whole that's the whole deal.
Peter Matseykanets: But the beauty of rest or that approach, and the same approach sort of counting is like in c++ is that you don't have garbage collector.
Peter Matseykanets: garbage collection takes time.
Peter Matseykanets: And freezes your Program.
Peter Matseykanets: So for a low level programming for you, having type nested loop, and you use a ton of applications by the interview process database records, for example, and you have.
Peter Matseykanets: million of them going over the cursor right, you will be doing a ton of allocations to you know to process that data.
Peter Matseykanets: into in.
Peter Matseykanets: garbage collected world would that would pile up for a while until very selective finally have some time to.
To free that memory.
Peter Matseykanets: Right in the rest, the beauty is.
Peter Matseykanets: That it's you know will be dropping that you can you read the Program.
Peter Matseykanets: in a proper way.
Peter Matseykanets: A little dropping that right away.
Dave Fuller: make sense, I remember memory allocation was there a pain and see.
Dave Fuller: What else remember you can pass pointers into functions, so that anything that happened to.
Dave Fuller: so that you could actually change some.
Dave Fuller: Remember, why we go.
Peter Matseykanets: yeah and you can do exactly the same thing in rust with the references.
Peter Matseykanets: You pass a reference to.
Peter Matseykanets: His trainings, for example, and you can do something with it.
Peter Matseykanets: And in itself doesn't go out of scope to you, retain the value memory.
Peter Matseykanets: problem what's the problem with just passing the pointer in rust.
Peter Matseykanets: is describing.
Peter Matseykanets: I think, in the first part of this chapter is that if you just pass the pointer since the passing argument to the to the function is equivalent to just assigning.
Peter Matseykanets: value to a variable is basically the same thing that pointer will go out of scope and will be dropped once.
Peter Matseykanets: Once that function finished so that's why they have references, so you can pass reference around instead and the pointer stays in scope, at the call side in the scope of the call side of the function if that makes sense.
Peter Matseykanets: So that you don't need to pass in the receive that pointer every single time they illustrated that pretty well with this train.
Peter Matseykanets: right if you if you pass trade, the pointer.
Dave Fuller: door it's.
Dave Fuller: kind of.
Dave Fuller: To.
Dave Fuller: know.
Dave Fuller: Think I got spoiled with Python.
Dave Fuller: I do, I do like a lot of this lot of stuff here in Ross but.
Dave Fuller: it's gonna take me a while to learn it.
Peter Matseykanets: Oh yeah.
Peter Matseykanets: borrowing and ownership.
Peter Matseykanets: That that's that requires a steep learning curve.
Peter Matseykanets: As far as I understand.
Raunak Chitre: So quick question so How was the ownership transferred i'm looking at that same.
Raunak Chitre: The.
Raunak Chitre: example which shows the string and they have a function or less takes ownership i'm just trying to understand how is that ownership transferred from the main function into that takes ownership function, meaning what was I don't see anything special being done.
Peter Matseykanets: Right what's special in the breath is that when you assign if you go even up.
Peter Matseykanets: yeah if you if you instantiate a variable of type string.
Peter Matseykanets: ass and then on the next line, you will do let s two equals ass or s one.
Peter Matseykanets: The S one ceases to exist, you move the variable.
Raunak Chitre: Oh, I see.
Peter Matseykanets: Right.
Peter Matseykanets: And will.
Peter Matseykanets: But that's within the same scope, and that is done to avoid.
Peter Matseykanets: Double free memory.
Peter Matseykanets: Right.
Peter Matseykanets: crocker if they would point to the same thing that according to the rust rules when the both variables go out of scope, they both need to free allocated memory, but if they point to the same.
Peter Matseykanets: To the same memory, then that would cause an error right, that would be invalid, so what they do instead they move the variable so one or assets ceases to exist.
Peter Matseykanets: Once you assigned as to as to.
Peter Matseykanets: In in the case of the function you pass that point or to the function and now that point or the ownership transfer to.
Peter Matseykanets: To that function right, you are in a new scope of that function but that pointer and you hold into it, but once you return out of function, the scope is gone and so rust will call.
Peter Matseykanets: drop trade right and in free the memory, if you at that point, if you have not returned back that pointer and transfer the ownership somewhere else that memory and that variable they're gone.
Raunak Chitre: quarter quarter.
Peter Matseykanets: completely.
Peter Matseykanets: And so that's where the reference data comes in.
Raunak Chitre: cartridge and that's how it is sort of taking care of the memory allocation the allocation, you are not really doing those, but you are doing a template secondly by.
Raunak Chitre: Following that is true.
Peter Matseykanets: Right you're allocating once you calling the function and passing the reference at that point, you are not allocating anything right you just assigning the value in the stack with that reference that points to a pointer.
Peter Matseykanets: or even the function, you can follow that reference to get two pointer and therefore to the memory, so you can do stuff there, and once you out of the function reference ceases to exist, which is perfectly fine and so you do not do allocate anything so the older ownership ownership stayed.
Peter Matseykanets: as it was before the the functional.
Peter Matseykanets: It was that, that is, that is my understanding of what I bred in in tried with their example.
Peter Matseykanets: So what do you want to.
Peter Matseykanets: do with that.
Peter Matseykanets: tonight.
Dave Fuller: I don't know I keep dropping popping back in um one thing I wanted to ask.
Dave Fuller: just looking at the slices.
Dave Fuller: And it seems in see they don't have with a string as as as basically a character array and looking at the slices I feel like the it's somewhat similar with with rust.
David Fox: How so.
Dave Fuller: i'm i'm trying to remember, but it's like in see like.
Dave Fuller: there's an array a string is basically a character array it's not like a true.
Dave Fuller: Variable type.
David Fox: situation.
Dave Fuller: yeah and the way they describe things the slices it sounds like they treat screen very, very similar in that regard with russ.
Does that make sense.
David Fox: sorta is my see is very, very rusty, at best, but I do remember what you were talking about where yeah like been see a string is just a character and character array under the hood.
David Fox: there's no actual string type of the syntax voila.
David Fox: The syntax will allow you to parse it.
David Fox: Just.
Dave Fuller: Reading the slight part about slices makes it sound like there's a.
Dave Fuller: that's just a way of.
David Fox: up to date.
Peter Matseykanets: They will.
David Fox: All right, so it's not just me.
Peter Matseykanets: know and, by the way, David nice nice fun my memory rusty.
Peter Matseykanets: That was good.
David Fox: I do.
David Fox: This.
Dave Fuller: Oh man.
Peter Matseykanets: i'll come back.
Dave Fuller: This is killing me I don't know what is wrong with.
Dave Fuller: My Internet.
Dave Fuller: rockin.
Peter Matseykanets: I think there was.
Peter Matseykanets: Actually, a big difference between slices and a race that was probably kind of remembering from seed from C or c++ and then go there is also a raise in their slices slices are.
Peter Matseykanets: References or structure that points to specific subset of an underlying array.
Peter Matseykanets: In the same problem with rest in the rest arrays are of fix fixed size.
Peter Matseykanets: So if you need to grow and array you need to define the new.
Peter Matseykanets: chunk of memory and then do memory manipulation to to move stuff around.
Peter Matseykanets: Right and so slices are a way.
Peter Matseykanets: To work around that that's a structure that points to different parts of memory, allowing you to treat we're not treat but yeah to treat a set of elements is as of unknown size or of.
David Fox: me as a as a whole.
David Fox: yeah as a separate array as if it were a separate right yes.
Peter Matseykanets: And all the languages and i'm pretty sure russ does that, too, I haven't read just that part about slices but it most likely do a ton of optimizations like not to move array until it's necessary like copy on the right and other stuff but.
Peter Matseykanets: But slices, in other words slices even in direction that points to an underlying array of something or maybe even more generic like collection of something.
Peter Matseykanets: and in this I see.
Peter Matseykanets: They say that it's a reference for continuous segments sequence of elements in the collection and slices a kind of reference, so it does not have ownership that's a.
Peter Matseykanets: that's an important consequence.
Peter Matseykanets: So you can pass it around.
Peter Matseykanets: Without worrying worrying about the ownership, which is really cool.
David Fox: And then it's being manipulated or changed in like you know sub string of the greater array.
David Fox: Or can be modified.
David Fox: Could you could you pass a slice as a mutable reference or is that a compiler if you tried to edit that would that be a compile time error.
Peter Matseykanets: I think it should I didn't.
Peter Matseykanets: Like I say i'm sorry I haven't read but.
David Fox: knows okay i'm looking at i'm looking at that I know they had an example of it.
David Fox: i'm just trying to find it on the the slice type i'm working through in the actual rust programming language physical book and i'm a lot further along, but every read Chapter four in preparation for this, and I know, there was an example and i'm just looking for it.
David Fox: Like if you were to pass a string slice as a mutable reference to a function.
David Fox: I guess the first question is, can you do that, and if you can like the purpose, like the intention of the code.
David Fox: would be to say.
David Fox: This function could change the strength lies.
Where is it.
Peter Matseykanets: Right, I think you should be able to if you say that it's in mutable thing then you need to be able to to their.
David Fox: first word return a slice that.
David Fox: string slices that's parameters.
David Fox: It just had the example.
David Fox: of it as.
David Fox: A a an immutable reference.
David Fox: I thought that was an example of it as a mutable reference.
David Fox: But does that via or would that violate ownership, I saw I saw an example that somewhere i'm sorry guys, I thought ahead and have too much on but i'll find eventually.
Peter Matseykanets: This stack overflow says that twice just strings lenses are immutable period.
David Fox: They are or are not.
Peter Matseykanets: They are they are immutable.
David Fox: Okay, they are immutable by default, but so is it, I guess, I mean, I guess, we can just try and code this real quick and see if it would give me a compiler if you tried to pass a string slice as an immutable or as an immutable reference.
David Fox: So.
Dave Fuller: The participants to share the screen, if you want to show it you're typing in there.
David Fox: Oh sorry yeah the I was trying to see if it would actually give me.
David Fox: A right.
David Fox: Now that when it wants.
David Fox: yeah let me pop over to.
David Fox: share.
David Fox: Where is vs code all right do I have multiples of those.
Dave Fuller: Sure, the right one.
David Fox: Oh crap I missed on a shared on zoom on the second year before.
David Fox: might have to pop back out.
David Fox: brb.
Raunak Chitre: found an example how the new data slice so I just pasted that link on the.
Raunak Chitre: chat.
Raunak Chitre: But it seems to be.
Peter Matseykanets: As far as I understand slices that are not string slices are different slices and they share similar.
Dave Fuller: capabilities.
Peter Matseykanets: For properties, but strength lies, is not the same as slice of integers, for example.
Raunak Chitre: Oh, I see that's why that example is showing ladies yes.
David Fox: Alright, so.
let's try that and then.
David Fox: vs code So hopefully you guys can see vs code.
Peter Matseykanets: with you.
or.
David Fox: forgive the rest of the garbage or just some things here from me, this is just the last window ahead open.
David Fox: From last week or whenever we were working on the fibonacci.
David Fox: function, so I thought.
David Fox: Was that even the right syntax.
David Fox: This is how you set this I always say an is a mutable string slice reference right, and this is not pass that are able to sing.
David Fox: You can be used in several situations, the first is mutable variables excuse anywhere, you can bind to evaluate to a variable name.
David Fox: So maybe there's a different way to do it.
David Fox: If it is possible, or if it.
David Fox: If there is no way to change it to be beautiful.
Peter Matseykanets: Can you do it in the lab statement itself let's move on to something like this and then remove am ut and space in the mind function at the call side, yes.
David Fox: Sorry we're here.
Peter Matseykanets: yeah can you remove it.
Peter Matseykanets: Right, the probably the reference the ampersand in front of them.
David Fox: Oh right right so needs to be a reference.
Peter Matseykanets: Right.
Peter Matseykanets: haha.
David Fox: found it found a string reference.
Peter Matseykanets: No, it doesn't.
Peter Matseykanets: And complains.
David Fox: Right it's like that okay so.
David Fox: This is saying, give me a mutable string out of this or it's attempting to.
David Fox: So expecting immutable string reference, but it found.
David Fox: implied a string reference okay.
David Fox: So much must feel wrong wrong syntax or.
yeah.
David Fox: Okay, but I found the stack overflow answer that I think makes that actually makes sense to me, so this right here.
David Fox: doesn't make sense, anyway, because a string slice my definition like I think you'd mentioned earlier, I think I made me misheard you Peter a string sliced by definition is immutable so having a mutable pointer to an immutable slice doesn't doesn't you couldn't do anything with it anyway.
David Fox: The underlying data is still immutable so having a pointer to that wouldn't make sense, so if you wanted to replace characters.
David Fox: You need you need to correct yeah you need to create a new string in the function.
David Fox: and return that so like you would need to have a return, you need to return a string from the function, I need to manipulate.
David Fox: Whatever your strings slice was inside the function and return that so.
David Fox: Let.
David Fox: me string.
David Fox: Whatever.
David Fox: that's the that's the function, I was remembering from somewhere in the book.
David Fox: That.
David Fox: Oh just push only to your character pushing.
David Fox: string slice onto the end of the string.
David Fox: isn't that a strange place.
David Fox: Okay, can I borrow a new strings mutable it's not declared as mutable.
David Fox: There we go.
Peter Matseykanets: There we go.
David Fox: So that takes a.
David Fox: So we don't mean that that doesn't need to be immutable anymore, so now we just have a string reference that we pass in.
David Fox: Now this function still does not own that slice.
David Fox: we create a new string.
David Fox: From a string literal.
David Fox: Yes or.
David Fox: What.
Peter Matseykanets: sign.
Peter Matseykanets: equals.
Peter Matseykanets: Quite let him whatever.
David Fox: And this will then have to do all right.
David Fox: yeah since we're actually going so we said here, and then, because this would be this would be a compiler right yes it's not mutable.
Peter Matseykanets: mm hmm.
David Fox: Can assign twice.
David Fox: There we go.
David Fox: alright.
David Fox: Okay.
David Fox: Alright, so there's.
David Fox: A little a little deep dive or a shallow dive maybe into strings license so yeah so okay so immutable string slice be like doesn't make any sense, because a string slices by default immutable so having a pointer to it that can change, for some reason just doesn't make any sense at all.
Peter Matseykanets: yep.
Peter Matseykanets: And it seems like if you need that.
Peter Matseykanets: type of manipulation right, you would need to choose a different.
Peter Matseykanets: Data structure.
Peter Matseykanets: Exactly and converted from straying into, for example, a slice of bites.
Peter Matseykanets: Right and then you can have you know, access to individual bites and do whatever manipulation you wanted there and then.
David Fox: yeah.
David Fox: So even if the function could take ownership of it which it doesn't when you're passing a string slice that would be odd anyway because.
David Fox: you're changing.
David Fox: you're changing a string that could theoretically or that would retain ownership back to the calling function and be modified in that function.
David Fox: I think that, like the the syntax could suggest it I guess the compiler just won't let you do that you'd like you said it have to pick a different structure, you need something else to manage that string or make that make that actual edit.
Peter Matseykanets: yep look like it.
David Fox: yeah I offer that.
David Fox: stack overflow article in the chat, just in case anybody wants to look at it it's the it's the first and it's that so it's the chosen answer.
David Fox: Yes, as you can't change your strings life at all so immutable strings lies is not an appropriate type anyway because it's literally a mutable pointer to an immutable slice and all strings slices are immutable stream slices are immutable.
Peter Matseykanets: Right and that's where the difference comes in right.
Peter Matseykanets: Like if you do a slice of integers you can go in and.
Peter Matseykanets: You know right index them and then change them.
yeah.
David Fox: I think that I think that finally makes enough sense to me.
David Fox: Does that make sense to everyone else.
Raunak Chitre: Yes, yes that's.
Raunak Chitre: Good.
David Fox: yeah easy enough to.
Dave Fuller: make sense.
Dave Fuller: Especially the part, so I could hear.
David Fox: Oh sorry.
David Fox: I wasn't my connection.
Dave Fuller: I think it's the.
David Fox: And you got it on the recording this So hopefully.
David Fox: Hopefully, if it wasn't my connection it'll be in the recording.
David Fox: yeah it's always easy enough just to spin up a new rust application.
David Fox: and throw a couple random lines of code in.
David Fox: Nice.
David Fox: Well, what else anybody else have any other questions comments code to share.
David Fox: on Chapter four.
Peter Matseykanets: i'm all for tonight.
Peter Matseykanets: I need to finish the chapter.
David Fox: yeah it was it was interesting going back and reading it so i'm i'm around like I think i'm on Chapter 15 smart pointers.
David Fox: So I think this is the this is this site, the rust length docs just I think they follow that book or maybe the one is written from the other night, I have the version that is.
David Fox: updated for 2018 so some things I guess could theoretically be out of date, but it was good to come back and read this one, there were some.
David Fox: There was some additional syntax in future chapters that I could definitely have benefited from from coming back and reading this chapter and i'm sure others.
David Fox: yeah the ownership ownership stuff is definitely definitely new to me.
Peter Matseykanets: Nice yeah I mean.
Peter Matseykanets: As far as I heard you know.
Peter Matseykanets: You need to come back to that chapter many more times before.
David Fox: yeah it sounds like it is I consider myself an okay engineer i'm by no means a rock star or anything like that, like this, this ownership is a weird.
yep.
Peter Matseykanets: Fortunately, I have to run and, apparently, I am now the.
David Fox: Oh yeah it's already seven o'clock.
Peter Matseykanets: Hope yeah.
David Fox: i'm the host now.
So.
Peter Matseykanets: i'll probably pop recording right.
David Fox: yeah, I guess, so I guess, I guess, we can generally call it, and what we can we can leave David message in the in the meetup or something just to let them know in case he does come back up there is.
No.
David Fox: yeah it says he chose now.
Peter Matseykanets: Dave.
Peter Matseykanets: we're about we're about to leave.
David Fox: yeah Peter and i've gotta jump but.
David Fox: If we want to connect on we I guess we get to use meetup COM to connect you know, for the time being and you've been posting the recordings I think right.
David Fox: If you're there.
Dave Fuller: i'm back.
David Fox: All right.
David Fox: yeah I think Peter and I were united jump, but it was great chatting with you guys tonight and definitely forward to more.
More stood out.
Dave Fuller: Put the last meeting on a YouTube and i'll put this one on there as well.
Dave Fuller: If you can hear me.
Raunak Chitre: yeah yeah.
Dave Fuller: yeah no i'll have this one up.
Dave Fuller: tomorrow.
David Fox: Alright well thanks everybody and have a great night.
Peter Matseykanets: that's all see you.
bye.